- Once you've prepared your resume,
it's time to start applying to positions
that match your criteria.
When you apply to a position at larger companies,
your resume will join a pool
of all the other applicants' resumes
in the employer's applicant tracking system,
which helps automate the hiring process.
For the most attractive positions,
there can be hundreds of applicants,
so the applicant tracking system uses keyword matching
and other algorithms to filter down the pool
to what it believes are the most qualified candidates.
It's important to build your resume and application
in a way that gives you the best chances
of making its way past this first automated screen,
so that way, your resume will be reviewed
by a human recruiter.
There are three things you should keep in mind
that will increase your odds of advancing
past this initial screen.
First, make sure you've tailored your resume
to highlight your qualifications
which match those listed in the job description.
The wording in the job description
is the best insight you have
into the criteria being used to screen your submission.
Second, make sure your resume is optimized
to be read by a computer.
You'll want to stick to standard fonts
and file formats, like DOCX or PDF.
In some cases, employers will specify
a preferred file format, so in those situations,
you'll want to stick with what they suggest.
Avoiding complex table layouts, columns, and graphics
will help ensure there are no technical problems
when the applicant tracking system scans your resume.
Some application systems will require you
to complete forms that collect your work experience,
education, and skills, which might seem a little redundant
since this information should be in your resume.
To make it easier to complete these forms,
I recommend storing the contents of your resume
in a plain text format
that you can easily copy and paste the information from.
Pay close attention to systems
that automatically parse your resume
and attempt to auto complete these forms.
If the transcription of your resume's information
is way out of sync, it can be an early indicator
that there may be problems when your resume
is automatically screened or reviewed by a recruiter.
If you're able to identify the recruiter
from the job posting,
you can send a short note expressing your interest
and excitement about the position.
This can help you stand out later
when the recruiter is reviewing the applications
that advance through the initial screen.
Applying to positions can be time consuming
and you'll need to balance it with your learning plan
and other responsibilities.
So when you're at this stage,
you'll want to schedule a dedicated block of time
for submitting applications and establish a realistic goal
for the number you plan to submit each week.
This will help you pace yourself, avoid burnout,
and allow you to cast a wide net
that increases your odds of getting an interview.
To make the process more enjoyable,
do a bit of daydreaming with each submission
about what it might be like if you got it.
Be prepared to handle a little rejection,
because not every submission will be successful.
It's just part of the process
and you can't get discouraged over each submission.
When you finally land that right position,
you may even be grateful that you were passed over
for some of the earlier ones that you applied to.